# Takeaways from T-127

When I first enrolled in the Ed.M. Learning Design, Innovation and Technology program, I was uncertain about my identity as an educator. This Fall semester has been a journey in finding this identity.
When I started T-127, I noticed that most of my reflections and contributions to class discussion were from the perspective of a learner. Now, after having designed and facilitated a learning session for my capstone, I feel like I have come a long way.

First, I can now see the value in analysing a learning experience from any perspective and especially that of a learner. Breaking down what worked and what didn't work in my previous classrooms was a great way for me to connect my learning from the course to real-life examples. It was also a great way for me to remember that every design decision must be explicitly connected to learning outcomes. In plenty of cases where learning experiences didn't work, they didn't work because they were extraneous to learning outcomes. 
For example, during my undergraduate studies, I worked on a qualitative research project. As part of the assessment, my group had to turn in _some code, any code_ because the guidelines for a research project taken for credit included submission of code. Frustrated, my group made up a vaguely connected coding project, completed hurriedly in the last days of the semester, in order to meet guidelines that made absolutely no sense for our project. If I were a learning designer collaborating with faculty on this, I would ask: what are the learning outcomes of this research project? If the primary outcome is that students learn to code, I would not approve a project unaligned with this outcome in the first place. If the expected outcome is something else, I would change the guidelines.

Second, through working on the Learning from Foundations project and my capstone, I developed some skills like conducting 1:1 qualitative interviews and designing media for learning. I was also able to engage, for the first time, in a structured process for learning design by following the learner-centered design framework. Having previously used design thinking approaches to solve problems in software and data engineering, I appreciated how this can be used in parallel problems in learning design.

I find it a compelling idea to revisit something I thought during the first few classes of the semester: "I only ever find constructionist learning experiences worthwhile." Now, at the end of the T-127 course, I am forced to re-evaluate. Was T-127 purely constructionist? No. Was any part of it constructionist? Yes. Did I enjoy the constructionist part (the capstone) any more than some of the other parts (the activity to design a learning experience to teach driving)? Yes. I can fully imagine, though, that my classmates may have different answers to these questions I just asked myself. Approaching this situation from the lens of learner-centered design, I think T-127 did a perfect job of achieving balance, in order to promote all kinds of learners to engage fully. In the future, I hope to design learning experiences for _all_ my learners, to achieve a similar kind of balance.

I also understand that balance in the product is only a reflection of balance in the process. In claiming that my primary goal is to design for my learners, I must be willing to put aside my own beliefs and experiences at times. I hope to be driven by outcomes and not attached to a certain method.

