
# Examples of Media Decisions
During the module on Media Development, I realised that I'd never deeply reflected on the media-related decisions that educators make constantly. The article by MIT Media Lab on "Why there are so many video lectures in online learning, and why there probably shouldn’t be" was thought-provoking. As a learner, I have often found that I much prefer reading from articles or books to watching videos. I always assumed this was my quirk; but this week's readings shed some more light on my preference. 

Often, videos that I viewed included "talking heads" that presented information that could very well have been written out in an article. On these occasions, I wondered, "Is it not easier to just read this information? I can save it, and go back to it whenever I choose to. I can highlight relevant pieces and take notes." The article says that videos might promote engagement without promoting learning. It might be that more people are exposed to the information when it is presented in video form, but how helpful is the video for understanding and retention?

The class session for this module was also very interesting. For the small-group discussion, we had to select a course we had taken at HGSE, and list out all the types of media used to support learning in the course. The discussion that followed was around which of these media resources "landed" well and promoted learning, and which ones didn't. I recall thinking about different versions of an activity - discussing with a group and writing down observations on a chart, then doing a "gallery walk" to look at the charts created by other groups. I'd experienced this activity a few times before, but in one of my classes this Fall, it was particularly well-executed. I'll describe the activity first, and then explain why I think so.

## Carousel Brainstorm Activity
The class session was about data collection methods. The professor was aware of the fact that many students had, some experience with data collection. Instead of proceeding with the usual lecture format, she split the class into groups and we were assigned to charts hung up on the classroom walls. Each chart featured one method of data collection. In our groups, we had some time to discuss and write down the pros and cons of the assigned method. When music started playing, we had to move on to the next chart - which was already partially filled by the previous group - and repeat this process. Eventually, this process reached "saturation". None of the groups could come up with pros and cons beyond the ones already captured on the charts. The professor then directed us to walk around the classroom and observe all the points that had been written down. This activity culminated with a large-group discussion to surface interesting ideas.

There were a few reasons that I thought this activity worked well:
* The objective nature of the discussion: In my previous experiences with this activity, the topic of discussion was so subjective and context-dependent that I often wouldn't understand by simply looking at the charts what the other groups had been talking about.
* Drawing upon previous experience: The professor understood that the learners had a wealth of experiential knowledge on the subject, and this activity was designed to be a structured way of eliciting and sharing that knowledge.
* Breaking the monotony of a long lecture: The primary method of instruction in this class was lecture and discussions. I imagine this activity could have been performed online just as easily, but the physical movement seemed to energise the class.
